# bir_tools
2U-Net
Learning an efficient deep end-to-endcomplex-valued network for highly acceleratedmagnetic resonance image reconstruction
Some starter Jupyter notebooks accompaning my Thesis work on efficent deep learning based magnet resonance image reconstruction. 

Abstract— Magnetic  Resonance  Imaging  (MRI)  is  one  of  theleading  modalities  for  anatomical  and  functional  imaging  ofthe  body  and  brain,  with  extensive  applications  in  clinic  andresearch.  However  despite  the  great  successes  in  hardware  andsoftware design current MR technology still hampered by a slowacquisition  process.  This  leads  to  patient  discomfort,  samplingartefacts and additional costs for the operators. Accelerating theimaging  process  is  therefore  beneficial  in  several  ways.  Usingcompressed sensing theory sampling far below Nyquist criteria isalready standard for many clinical and research purposes. Recentdevelopments  in  deep  learning  have  introduced  an  additionalpromising  conceptual  framework,  formulating  the  problem  as  astandard inverse problem. Multiple networks have been proposedto  tackle  this  problem.  However  most  of  them  only  operate  inimage space and are therefore not able to utilize the rich structurefound   in   the   k-space   representation.   This   paper   proposes   aComplex-valued,commutable,closedNetwork, hence we proposean end-to-end network incorporating U-Net like building blocksoperating  in  both,  image  and  k-space.  The  main  contributionsof  this  paper  are  in  introducing  the  use  of  complex  valuedconvolutions for a novel modular, end-to-end trainable network.As well as in outlining ”known operator” guided design principlesthat  drastically  reduce  the  required  parameter  space  comparedto  other  end-to-end  networks.  We  show  that  such  a  networkis comparable or superior to current state-of-the-art approachesfor several reconstruction problems and can enable new real-timereconstruction tasks without the need of intensive retraining. It isfurthermore demonstrated that by using guided design principlesbased  on  well  known  signal  models  for  the  modular  networkcomponents,  a  more  interpretable  and  efficient  model  can  be learned.

For access to the datset see fastrmi.org or email the author(t.oberkofler@student.maastrichtuniversity.nl).

Catrogry: Biomedical Image Reconstruction Tools, Deep learning, accelerated MRI
